# Design Diary - 2/28/2020 - Milestone 3 Card Project

For this assignment we were supposed to make a new deck and card structure for a card game based on a UML diagram given to us in class. The basic design requirements were to implement four buttons: shuffle, add deck, draw from top, and draw from bottom that all verified their functionality using the `Debug.Log()` function. Honestly, I wish that I did more, but due to a lot of work in other classes that I was slightly more motivated to do, I only completed the basic requirements. The hardest part of this assignment for me was the shuffling function, as I wanted to do a 'riffle shuffle' without converting anything to a list(vector/array) or changing the data structure. Something I thought about was the fact that random finds/insertions are more costly from an efficiency standpoint than removing and finding the first and last values. So instead of generating random positions for each card, I decided to pull from the top or bottom of two linked lists (the cut deck) based on a random number between one and four, and repeat it 1,000 times. This probably doesn't generate the most 'random' output, but it does shuffle the deck, and the deck does appear to be shuffled when it runs. After that, everyhting was fairly simple, however, I wasn't able to figure out displaying the card on the screen though another script, and so I gave up on trying it. Probably the most satisfying part of the project was parsing through the material names and pulling out the suits and values so that they could be assigned to each card. for this, I had to rename a couple sprites that had 2s at the end of their name which I decided to do using a Python script (Yay for Python!). After that, I was able to use the split function to split based on underscores and then I assigned the last position as the suit, and used a try/catch block to check if the first part could be converted to an int. If the conversion could be made, I threw the value into value. If not, I took the value and checked if it was 'ace', if so, I assigned it a value of 11, if not, I assigned a value of 10. This worked for all the cards and was pretty satisfying to watch work. 

Something I realized while working on this, is that even though it wasn't the hardest assignment, and I didn't go above and beyond, is that I can look at what I've wrote and tell that I've learned a lot since last semester. I constantly find uses for things like try/catch blocks, which I never used in my projects/programs last semester. Something else I was thinking about during this project was that using a linked list seemed more challanging when last semester when we had to custom design the structure and functions to manipulate them. I was thinking that this might be a good way to spice up the project in that it makes us think more and understand things like runtime complexity for STL functions like AddLast, RemoveLast, etc...